Assignment name: Assignment 5
TCSS 305 C: Programming Practicum, Winter 2023


Name: Alan To
UWNetID: ato7


Assignment Overview:
While this assignment was probably the smallest assignment we've had this quarter, it was one where I learned from
a lot. With all that we had to learn and this being a whole new concept that I haven't done before in Java and it
being a whole new side of coding, I was able to gain a lot from this assignment. Diving into GUI and learning more about
how ActionListeners work with lambdas, anonymous inner classes, and more, in our class, this assignment purpose was
to serve us practice on all that we learned in class and test our understanding about GUI components.



Technical Impression:
For this assignment, the first panel I did was the BlueRowPanel, as suggested on the assignment description. Going into
it, I already knew my goal was to get all the action listeners down. However, while I did know that I should be writing
some action listeners, I didn't really exactly remember or know how to code it because I haven't actually done it
before. So, what I first did was do some research and get some reminders by looking at the examples given to us in
modules and on the lectures and PowerPoint slides. Finally having a firm grip on how it's supposed to work, the
first action listener I wrote was the enable edit button listener because I knew it's only purpose was to allow access
to the value field. Using setEnabled, I checked to see if the button was enabled, and once it was, the value field should be editable.
Next, I did the increase and decrease buttons action listeners. For these 2, I first set the initial blue color number.
This is so if we press the increase or decrease button for a string or an amount out of the range 0-255, we could go back
to what the number was previously and not go out of bounds. I also went off of what was in the value field and increased
and decreased it by 1, along with disabling and enabling it when necessary. The next action listener I did for was for the
value field. For this, just like the increase and decrease buttons, I got the initial blue value before I started
anything. Getting what's written in the value field, if it was a string, we would put revert it back to what was originally
in the value field. This is also the same case if what was in the value field was over 255 or under 0. If what was written
in the value field was in between 0-255, then it should set the value field to what was written and set the slider value
to that value spot. Finally, the last action listener I wrote was for the slider. For this action listener, firstly, I
wanted the increase and decrease buttons to disable if the slider is at its max or at its minimum. Since the slider had
values, I would set blue to that value number at the slider current position. I then set the value field to what the value
of blue was after. Finishing everything up for the blue row panel ActionListeners, I just copied and pasted what I wrote
into the GreenRowPanel and RedRowPanel, and changed the blue methods to red or green methods. This worked perfectly for
me and I had no problems. Overall, this assignment was really fun for me because it was a new experience and something
I haven't seen or done before. Also, I just enjoy working with a GUI as a whole because you can see visually how your
code is working. It just makes coding more interesting at least for me.

Unresolved problems in my submission:
'none that I know of.'

Citations and Collaborations:
IntroToGUI.pdf
Intro to GUI part 2.pdf
HelloGoodbye.java
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-rJdMaSgt38&ab_channel=BroCode
https://washington.zoom.us/rec/play/xi4hp5mbu9i3STyx5LhmOGiDIC-b_MMW7cJ00FbqnfXKB5c_cvkPqzj2ckZCfSZCLXc_MgSdZ6ydarOO.0N-7LnpWC7x5cIeU
https://washington.zoom.us/rec/play/fk-ManzEolfwQ-Tm1I_Wtow5QPtjsperksRr2YGB6-MskNnaEtPZoosXM8TeRb9VXBqrDsgkZbEHCjiE.fMoPd47nAY1wPv0N
https://washington.zoom.us/rec/play/VJ9dUXi2r_xgxVCD62YeOYYyxpI4HFBaqa13LxP-zSUdQU-bn06m8fD6Wl9ZMwM9ZhtRAEdT2Dwnkng-.EOm7A2peRNwUcOMf
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/events/actionlistener.html

Extra Credit Attempted:
'none'

Questions:
The only question I have is about Java Docing. I tried to java doc each of my lambdas action listeners,
but when I did, it would say "Dangling Javadoc comment." My question is if it's necessary to java doc all
the action listeners or do we only have to do it when it's an anonymous inner class.
